[Music]
yeah I'm Thomas caed professor of
biology here at Boston College Chestnut
Hill Massachusetts and our research
projects of recent last 30 years perhaps
has been focusing on the gentics and
biochemistry uh of cancer um but I but
cancer we have a terrible problem in
cancer right now is is that it's an
increase a disease that's constantly
increasing uh in both incidents and
number of people dying and the most uh
recent studies coming from the American
Cancer Society have shown clearly that
we have over 600,000 people a year dying
from cancer in this country uh which
comes to about 1,700 people a day uh and
if you break it down it's about 70
people per hour uh and the situation is
becoming uh increasingly worse we're
having younger and younger people
getting getting Cancer all different
types of of these Cancers and and um you
know we've been studying this but not in
a way to actually impact uh for many
years to impact the the numbers of of
people surviving or being managed we we
started that um more recently when it
became clear clear to me uh that cancer
is a mitochondrial metabolic disease you
have to um understand that having been
uh having a PhD in genetics and
biochemistry understanding maleon
genetics I I was I was led to believe
always that cancer was a genetic disease
it was a silent assumption the field the
NIH National Institutes of Health
National Cancer Institute uh all say
cancer is a genetic disease of course I
had no reason to question that uh until
I started doing doing my own research
and clearly seeing that um something was
really not right with this because we
were we were collecting data on calorie
restriction fasting and this kind of
thing showing that GL the lowering of
glucose and the elevation of Ketone
bodies uh was strongly linked to the
success of managing cancer and that
brought us to the work of uh the
scientist OT warberg from Germany in the
19 uh in the 20th century leading
scientist and we be I began to see
through our research here at Boston
College that most of our work was
supporting OT warberg Theory and not and
not the somatic mutation Theory which is
the is the general theory that most
people think cancer is and that's what
it says on the National Cancer Institute
website it says cancer is a genetic
disease so as any scientist just say
well how can how can that organization
be incorrect but the more more research
that we did and the more observations
that we made in preclinical models of
brain cancer and metastatic cancer the
more and more we became convinced that
cancer was a mitochondrial metabolic
disease so I started taking a much
deeper look into the evidence supporting
the somatic mutation Theory why how is
it possible that so many leading
scientists and medical institutions
throughout the world are of this
constant belief uh with very little
questioning of it um son and shinado at
cuffs University had questioned this and
I I thought they did an excellent job
but um I I started to look more into it
myself and it would became more and more
clear that um mitochondrial energy
metabolism uh is at the core of of the
problem with cancer so we realize now
that cancer starts from a two-step
process chronic damage to the ability of
cells to produce energy through
oxidative phosphorilation which is our
ability to breathe oxygen and and
produce CO2 from breathing and that's
step one there's a chronic disruption of
oxidative phosphorilation followed by
step two is the protracted increase in
fermentation which is energy without
oxygen so then when we look at the
mitochondria under the electron
microscope as has been done by many many
scientists we see abnormalities and the
number structure and function of
mitochondria so this then seems to link
all cancers together they are uh have
defective energy metabolism we haven't
found any cancer that can live without a
fermentation now OT warberg said they
were fermenting uh lactic acid which is
the product of a glucose metabolism uh
we made a discovery here with my
colleague Christo chopos from semil
Weiss University in Budapest Hungary
that cancer cells also ferment the amino
acid glutamine so what we have found
we've actually filled in a lot of the
misunderstandings that were associated
with OT warberg original findings and
show now that warberg was essentially
correct cancer cells uh arise from
chronic damage to oxidative
phosphorilation coupled with a
compensatory fermentation of two fuels
the the fuel glucose and the amino acid
glutamine both of which can be fermented
so then that became clear to us and we
see all cancers have that same common
pathophysiological problem which can
occur from any number of influences in
the environment you can get intermittent
hypoxia carcinogens oncogenic viruses
intermittent infl intermittent oxygen
inflammation all of these kind kind of
things impact negatively on the
mitochondria mitochondria then uh
gradually turn on fermentation and it
became very clear we could connect all
the dots dots cancer is absolutely a
mitochondrial metabolic disease but then
when you go back and you look and say
how is it possible that so many people
can continue to think it's a genetic
disease so let's look at the evidence
they never discuss the tumors that have
no mutations so we look at and says how
how is it possible yes most of them do
have mutations
um but some don't so that's like wow
that's one serious U problem uh with the
somatic mutation Theory so people said
well not all mutations cause cancer uh
but then only certain ones like driver
genes the work out of Johns Hopkins said
oh no driver genes are the ones that
cause mutations in driver genes cause
cancer Now new new experiments are
showing that all the normal tissues in
our body are loaded with these driver
genes that don't form cancer another
major problem and then finally the
nuclear transfer experiments that were
done by Israel and Schaefer and a
variety of others in Vivo and in vitro
experiments clearly show when you take
the tumor nucleus the nucleus of a tumor
cell and put it in the cytoplasm of a
normal cell you get suppressed uh
tumorogenesis disregulated cell growth
on the other hand if you take the normal
the nucleus from a normal cell and put
it into a tumor cytoplasm you get
disregulated growth all of all together
no mutations in some cancers driver gene
mutations in normal tissues nuclear
transfer experiments clearly indicate
that Cancer Cannot Be A genetic disease
and the reason why people think it is is
confirmation biased or hopeless ideology
and that seems to be locked into the
entire system here confirmation bias and
hopeless ideology maintains the idea
that cancer is a genetic disease and as
the result of that we have 1,700 people
a die a day dying from a
misunderstanding of what the nature of
the disease is we're now seeing that
we're getting tremendous uh success uh
in managing cancer using metabolic
approaches as I said cancer cannot
survive cancer tumor cells cannot
survive without the sugar glucose or or
or or or the amino acid glutamine which
are the fermentation fuels nor can they
use fatty acids or Ketone bodies uh as
an alternative so the solution I should
say a solution
to managing cancer is to significantly
lower the two fermentable fuels while
elevating the body to an alternative
fuel fuels the the the fatty acids and
Ketone bodies which the tumor cells
can't use thereby we marginalize the
cancer cells their survivability is
significantly compromised I have to be
honest with you to Target glutamine is a
little bit more difficult than reducing
glucose you can reduce glucose by by
water only fasting and diets that lower
the glucose Ketone index which we
developed here at Boston College uh it's
a index of the ratio of glucose to
glutamine we can push that down we have
a calculator the keto mojos and other
meters can can bring let the patient
bring their own uh glucose uh down and
Elevate their ketones but to kill the
the glutamine pathway you need drugs and
we're using par parasite drugs and a
variety of other drugs that Target uh
the glutamine and we have to do that in
a pulse way uh not aess press way and
one of our biggest papers for the
transformation of cancer treatment in
clinics is the Press pulse therapeutic
strategy which we published here at
Boston College with my colleagues
Dominic the austino the late George U
and um Dr um Joseph maroon from the
University of Pittsburgh uh we put this
together uh it's called press puls we
press glucose down and we pulse the
glutamine while the body is in a state
of nutritional ketosis that will be the
strategy for managing the majority of
cancers uh when done correctly the
problem is the medical schools have not
yet come to understand this uh
unfortunately many oncologists and
Physicians have never been never been uh
trained to know that cancer is a
metabolic disease so they're all so we
have to have train the training of the
of the Physicians must H must happen and
uh we have to find a way to generate
Revenue uh using metabolic therapy uh in
order to replace the revenue generation
that's being done currently with these
toxic poisons and radiations and these
other things that were treating uh
people with so it's going to be a slow
transition it's a paradigm shift of the
greatest uh proportion because it
ultimately will be able to manage cancer
and take the stigma of fear uh uh and
and mystery out of this out of this uh
disease which is not nearly as
complicated as has been made out to be
the tumor cells cannot survive without f
fermentation the two fermentable fuels
are glucose and glutamine the tumor
cells cannot adapt to fatty acids or
Ketone bodies in the absence of these
two fuels so once once people come to
know this the the strategies for
managing cancer will be so much more
effective so much less toxic and allow
people to live far longer than is
currently possible
[Music]